Hello and welcome to the Open Visualization
Academy. My name is Alberto Cairo and I am
the Knight Chair in Infographics and Data
Visualization at the University of Miami.
Throughout my career, in the past three decades,
I have designed hundreds of infographics. I have
taught thousands of students from all over the
world. And I have written four books about the
craft and the art of information design
and data visualization. And, even though,
I think that the Open Visualization Academy is
probably my most ambitious project to date. The
Open Visualization Academy will launch on
January 31st, 2026. And I'm here to give
you an overview of its contents and also of
its contributors. For more than a decade now,
I've been thinking that it would be great to
have an online platform where anybody can go
and learn about information design
and data visualization for free.
And that's exactly what the Open Visualization
Academy is. For the Open Visualization Academy,
I have collaborated with some of the top experts
in information design and data visualization. I'm
not going to name them all. You can just simply
take a look at our website and see who they
are. You're probably going to see many familiar
faces in there. But how is the Academy going to
be structured? Well, the Academy is going to have
three different components. The first one is going
to be an introduction to information design and
data visualization class, that I will teach. This
is going to be around five or six hours of video
in which I will cover the elementary principles of
information design and data visualization. After
my introductory class, the second component of the
Open Visualization Academy is going to be a series
of specialized courses created by the experts whom
I just mentioned. Do you want to learn about
accessibility for data visualization? Well,
there's going to be a course about that. Do you
want to learn about business dashboards and how
to better communicate business data? We have you
covered. Or maybe you're interested in getting a
little bit deeper into coding and programming
using R or Python. We also have content about
that. Once again, I'm not going to list every
single master class and software tutorial that
is part of the Open Visualization Academy.
You can just simply consult our website. All
that I can tell you is that I am pretty certain
that they will help you take your visualization
design skills to the next level. Besides the
video master classes and software tutorials,
there is going to be a third component to the
open visualization academy, a Massive Open Online
Course (or MOOC) that I will teach myself every
year. We are still working out the details of this
MOOC. So if you want to stay up to date with it, I
would encourage you to sign up for our newsletter.
You can easily do it through our website. As I
said at the beginning, the Open Visualization
Academy is my most ambitious project to date.
And I hope that by now you are as excited as I
am about it. If you are, I hope that you will join
me in this adventure. See you again in January.